Job details
Job Type
Full-time
Part-time
Qualifications
MD or DO license in California (Required)

FQHC: 1 year (Preferred)

Spanish and English (Preferred)

Benefits
Pulled from the full job description
401(k)
401(k) 2% match
401(k) matching
Dental insurance
Employee assistance program
Employee discount
Full Job Description
Santa Cruz Community Health (SCCH) is a multi-site, Federally Qualified Health Center (FQHC) serving Santa Cruz County residents. SCCH began as a women's health collective in 1974 with the mission to improve the health of our patients and the community and advocate the feminist goals of social, political, and economic equality. Now, more than 45 years later, we serve that same mission at our three clinic sites: the Santa Cruz Women's Health Center in downtown Santa Cruz serving women and children; the East Cliff Family Health Center in Live Oak serving everyone; and the Santa Cruz Mountain Health Center providing easier access to care for our patients in the San Lorenzo Valley.

Family physicians at Santa Cruz Community Health (SCCH) provide comprehensive family medicine services, including preventive care, chronic disease management, pediatric care, reproductive health services, mental health and substance use treatment, in-office procedures and urgent care services, to a Santa Cruz County patient population rich in racial, ethnic, socioeconomic, gender, and international diversity. SCCH is committed to shaping a medical staff that reflects its patient population; bilingual English/Spanish is strongly preferred.

SCCH physicians work alongside other medical providers, nurses, medical assistants, mental health providers, chiropractors, Chinese medicine providers, and case managers in an integrated Care Team model. Physicians are clinical leaders of their Care Teams. Physicians meet regularly with their supervising Site Medical Director and the larger medical department to further their clinical knowledge and skill, discuss patient cases, review performance dashboards, and improve quality and clinical processes.

A new Family Medicine Residency Program is coming to Santa Cruz in July 2024, and SCCH will serve as the residents’ continuity clinic. SCCH family physicians will have an opportunity to teach and precept residents, a rare opportunity to engage in academic family medicine in a community clinic setting. SCCH family physicians may teach PA students from Cal State Monterey Bay, and they continually offer clinical support and mentorship to NPs, PAs, and more junior physicians in clinic.

All medical providers conduct some patient care remotely, usually from home, via telephone or video. 80% of an SCCH physician’s time is direct patient care, while 20% of their time is allotted for clinical “administrative” time. All medical visits are 20 minutes in length, and physicians are expected to see ten patients per 4-hour shift. SCCH uses eClinicalWorks (eCW) Electronic Health Record system for visit documentation, e-prescribing, and data collection for reporting on clinical quality.

Reports to: Site Medical Director
Classification: Full-time to Part-time, salary, exempt
Location: Positions available at both Live Oak Family Health Center and Santa Cruz Women’s Health Center
Hours: Varies, at least one evening per week, some Saturday shifts

POSITION SUMMARY/SCOPE:

COMPETENCIES

Job Expertise

Demonstrates knowledge and use of medical resources and policies and procedures, and applicable federal and state rules and regulations
Demonstrates ability to assess, implement and monitor options and services to meet individual patients' health needs
Effectively achieves quality, timely and measurable outcomes
Demonstrates ability to effectively use clinic’s Electronic Health Records system (EHR.
Participates in appropriate staff meetings and agency activities
Perform all clinical and administrative duties expected of a medical provider at SCCH.
Customer Service

Provides patient-centered customer service at all times
Demonstrates the ability to anticipate patients' needs and deliver services and respond to patients in a timely, accurate, courteous, respectful and friendly manner
Demonstrates ownership, initiative, attention to detail, and follow through
Approaches problem-solving by focusing on patients first
Communication Skills

Oral and written communication is clear, concise, accurate, positive and respectful
Response to oral and written questions, instructions, and information is timely and appropriate
Monitors email and other electronic communication on a daily basis
Teamwork/Interpersonal Skills

Dealings with others are characterized by fairness, courtesy, diplomacy, honesty, firmness, empathy and confidence
Effective in offering support and assistance to others, in obtaining information from others, and in supplying information to others
Is approachable and open to suggestions
Demonstrates a positive attitude, flexibility and the ability to develop effective relationships by helping others accomplish tasks and using collaboration and conflict resolution skills
Judgment/Problem Solving

Uses critical thinking and common sense to analyze situations, make timely and valid decisions, and take appropriate actions
Demonstrates good judgment in making decisions
Reliability

Completes all assigned duties in an accurate, timely and efficient manner
Arrives to work on time and maintains consistent attendance
Follows instructions and appropriate procedures
Maintains patient confidentiality as required by HIPAA
QUALIFICATIONS

Must be a Board-Certified family physician licensed and in good standing in the State of California.
Professional experience in community health centers or public health preferred
Clinical experience in mental health, chronic pain, and chronic disease management preferred
Commitment to preventive care, quality improvement, and empowering patients to make informed health care decisions.
Ability to work cooperatively with other staff in a Care Team model
Commitment to the stated mission of Santa Cruz Community Health and the diverse needs of our patient population.
Ability to work at least one evening per week. Providers are required to work up to 6 Saturday clinics per year. There are no call duties for this position.
Bilingual conversant/fluent in English and Spanish highly desirable.
WORKING CONDITIONS

Working conditions described here are representative of those that must be met by an employee to successfully perform the essential functions of this job. Reasonable accommodations may be made to enable qualified individuals with disabilities to perform the essential functions. Variations in conditions may occur under certain circumstances.

SALARY AND BENEFITS

SCCHC offers a competitive compensation & benefits package to staff working at least 20 hours per week. This is a full or part-time, salary, exempt position with 80% clinical time and 20% administrative time. Salary increases occur after Year 1, 3, 5, 7, 10 and every 5 years thereafter. Paid time off and paid holidays accrue from date of hire. Paid License(s) and CME (fees and days off). Employer subsidized group health, dental, vision and life insurance plans the first of the month after 30 days of employment. Automatic 2% enrollment in an Employer sponsored 401K plan with a 2% retirement match.

APPLICATION PROCESS

To apply, complete employment application. Download employment application from the Careers page of our website: schealthcenters.org/Careers. Submit application and current resume with letter of interest not to exceed two pages to Human Resources. No phone inquiries, please.

THE SANTA CRUZ COMMUNITY HEALTH CENTERS IS AN EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER (W/M/V/D)

Job Types: Full-time, Part-time

Benefits:

401(k)
401(k) matching
Dental insurance
Employee assistance program
Employee discount
Flexible schedule
Flexible spending account
Health insurance
Life insurance
Paid time off
Professional development assistance
Referral program
Relocation assistance
Retirement plan
Tuition reimbursement
Vision insurance
Medical specialties:

Primary Care
Schedule:

Day shift
Monday to Friday
Night shift
Weekend availability
Experience:

FQHC: 1 year (Preferred)
Language:

Spanish and English (Preferred)
License/Certification:

MD or DO license in California (Required)
Work Location: Hybrid remote in Santa Cruz, CA 95062