Job details
Salary
$44.16 - $55.40 an hour
Specialties
Ob/Gyn
Available shifts
Day shift, Overtime
Work Settings
Clinic
Job Type
Full-time
Part-time
Qualifications
RN license in California (Required)

Associate (Preferred)

Nursing: 2 years (Preferred)

Spanish (Preferred)

BLS Certification (Preferred)

Benefits
Pulled from the full job description
401(k)
401(k) 2% match
401(k) matching
Continuing education credits
Dental insurance
Disability insurance
Full Job Description
Santa Cruz Community Health (SCCH) began as a women's health collective in 1974 with the mission to improve the health of our patients and the community and advocate the feminist goals of social, political, and economic equality. Now, more than 45 years later, we serve that same mission as a nonprofit Federally Qualified Health Center operating three separate sites: the Santa Cruz Women's Health Center in downtown Santa Cruz serving women and children; the East Cliff Family Health Center in Live Oak, serving everyone; and the new Mountain Health Clinic providing easier access to care to patients in the San Lorenzo Valley.

SCCH has a diverse patient population and an engaging and friendly work environment. Our caring and committed staff works as a team to fulfill our mission so that all our patients have access to comprehensive, quality health care.

JOB SUMMARY:

The Registered Nurse (RN) is an essential part of the overall clinical team, the RN ensures that clinical operations and systems are organized to meet the strategic objectives of SCCH. Oversight of the daily operations of the clinical components of the patient experience requires exceptional critical thinking, leadership, patient relations, organizational and time management skills. The RN provides nursing services such as patient triage, making clinical assessment, organizing team-based care plans, administering medications, managing patient education.

Classification: Part-Time and Full-Time Available, Hourly, Non-Exempt
Reports to: Clinical Nurse Manager
Location: East Cliff Family Health Center or Santa Cruz Women's Health Center
Hours: Varies

CORE JOB RESPONSIBILITIES:

Direct Care

Collaborate with the Site Medical Directors, Family Practice Care Teams, and Clinic Manager to establish and maintain an effective and high-quality of health systems for patients.

Monitor the clinical work flow and staff for Family Practice:

Assist in monitoring care team bucket
Obtain history for walk-ins and urgent same day appointments
Lead same day scheduling based on acuity triage
Clinical mentoring of Medical Assistants
Triage phone calls and provide clinical advice
Field correspondence with hospitals, emergency departments, specialists and other community health partners.
Balance the clinical workload in real time: ensure that clinic workflow runs smoothly and that clinic patients receive care in a timely manner.
Ensure collaboration and proper teamwork and clinic flow.
Work closely with Family Practice Providers for continuity, patient education and appropriate same day access
Assist Teams Pre and Post Huddle
Administer medications, injections, and assist with procedures
Triage patients both through phone and face to face contact
Patient Visits and New patient intakes
Patient Education and counseling
Medication Reconciliation
Special Projects, as needed
Emergency Response Team
COMPETENCIES:

Job Expertise

Demonstrates knowledge of applicable clinical principles and practices
Demonstrates knowledge and use of clinic policies and procedures as well as applicable federal and state rules and regulations
Applies technical can procedural skills efficiently and effectively
Successfully gathers and uses information, procedures, materials, equipment and techniques required for position
Demonstrates ability to effectively use Electronic Health Records (EHR)
Customer Service

Provides patient-centered customer service at all times
Demonstrates the ability to anticipate patients' needs and deliver services and respond to patients in a timely, accurate, courteous, respectful and friendly manner
Demonstrates ownership, initiative, attention to detail, and follow-through
Approaches problem-solving by focusing on patients first
Advocates for care that best serves the patient
Addresses customer complaints/problems in a timely manner
Communication Skills

Oral and written communication is clear, concise, accurate, positive and respectful
Demonstrates comprehension of oral and written questions, instructions, and information rapidly, thoroughly, and accurately
Response to oral and written questions, instructions, and information is timely and appropriate
Written communication is well-organized, legible, concise, neat, and in proper grammatical form
Checks work related email and mailbox on a daily basis
Teamwork and Interpersonal Skills

Dealings with others are characterized by fairness, courtesy, diplomacy, honesty, firmness, empathy and confidence
Effective in offering support and assistance to others, in obtaining information from others, and in supplying information to others
Demonstrates a positive attitude, flexibility and ability to develop effective relationships by helping others accomplish tasks and using collaboration and conflict resolution skills
Judgement & Problem Solving

Uses critical thinking and common sense to analyze situations, make timely and valid decisions, and take appropriate actions
Demonstrates good judgment in making decisions
Resolves issues independently and only seeks assistance as needed
Reliability

Completes assigned duties and responsibilities in an accurate, timely and efficient manner
Arrives to work on time and maintains consistent attendance
Follows instructions and appropriate procedures
Maintains patient confidentiality as required by HIPAA
Personal Development

Attend required annual in-service programs
Comply with all training's, drills, policies and procedures concerning safety
100% attendance to mandatory skills/competencies updates yearly required
Maintain license and credentialing requirements
QUALIFICATIONS:

A valid and current Registered Nurse license issued by the State of California. Must be a graduate of an accredited school of nursing.
Bi-lingual Spanish/English fluency preferred
Value, promote, and commit to SCCH’s mission, vision, and values
Desire to serve the community clinic population with excellent health care
Current CPR certification
Demonstrated ability to perform assigned responsibilities with minimum supervision; to maintain quality control standards; to interpret, adapt and apply guidelines and procedures.
Excellent team player balanced with initiative and organizational skills
Commitment to preventive care and empowering patients to make informed health care decisions
Excellent oral and written communication skills
Ability to work some evenings
Two years of experience, preferred
Two years of medical triage experience, preferred.
BSN preferred
Knowledge of HIPAA regulations
WORK CONDITIONS:

The physical demands described are representative of those that must be met by an employee to successfully perform the essential functions of this job. Reasonable accommodations may be made to enable individuals with disabilities to perform the essential functions. Variations in conditions may occur under certain circumstances. While performing the duties of this job, the employee is regularly required to talk or hear. The employee regularly is required to stand, walk, sit, use hand to grasp, handle or feel objects, tools, or controls; and reach with hands and arms. The employee frequently lifts and/or moves up to 25 pounds. Specific vision abilities required by this job include close vision and the ability to adjust.

SALARY AND BENEFITS:

$5,000 hiring bonus, linked to a minimum 2-year commitment. Competitive compensation with hourly pay range of $44.16 to $55.40/hour. Benefits package available for employees working at least 20 hrs/week. Paid time off and paid holidays accrue from date of hire. Paid Medical License(s), and CME (fees and days off). Employer subsidized group health, dental, vision and life insurance plans starting the first of the month after 30 days of employment. Automatic 2% enrollment in an Employer sponsored 401K plan with 2% retirement match.

APPLICATION PROCESS:

To apply, download our employment application on the Careers page of our website: schealthcenters.org. Submit application and current resume with letter of interest to Human Resources. No phone inquiries, please.

SANTA CRUZ COMMUNITY HEALTH IS AN EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER (M/F/V/D)

Job Types: Full-time, Part-time

Pay: $44.16 - $55.40 per hour

Benefits:

401(k)
401(k) matching
Continuing education credits
Dental insurance
Disability insurance
Employee assistance program
Employee discount
Flexible schedule
Flexible spending account
Free parking
Health insurance
License reimbursement
Life insurance
Loan forgiveness
Malpractice insurance
Paid sick time
Paid time off
Pet insurance
Referral program
Travel reimbursement
Tuition reimbursement
Vision insurance
Physical setting:

Clinic
Standard shift:

Day shift
Evening shift
Supplemental schedule:

Overtime
Weekly schedule:

Monday to Friday
COVID-19 considerations:
All healthcare workers are required through CA state law mandate to receive COVID-19 vaccination and booster by March 1, 2022.

Ability to commute/relocate:

Santa Cruz, CA 95062: Reliably commute or planning to relocate before starting work (Required)
Education:

Associate (Preferred)
Experience:

Nursing: 2 years (Preferred)
Language:

Spanish (Preferred)
License/Certification:

BLS Certification (Preferred)
RN license in California (Required)
Work Location: One location