Job details
Encouraged to Apply
Fair chance
Job Type
Full-time
Benefits
Pulled from the full job description
401(k)
Dental insurance
Health insurance
Paid time off
Travel reimbursement
Vision insurance
Full Job Description
Company Alaska Airlines

The Team

As a pilot at Alaska Airlines, you are committed to living our values. You “Own Safety” and “Deliver Performance” on the job and in your community. And in very noticeable ways, you “Do the Right Thing,” aim to “Be Kind Hearted” and “Be Remarkable.” These are the traits all Alaska Airlines pilots show their guests and coworkers throughout their careers. In return, you’ll have the opportunities and experiences to help you reach your careers goals.

Role Summary

The First Officer is responsible for ensuring a safe journey and a positive experience for all of our guests while continually maintaining a high-level of professionalism. This is a union represented position.

Key Duties

Perform as Second in Command in the transport of passengers, mail, freight, or for other commercial purposes.
Comply with Federal Aviation Regulations, Company Flight Procedures, and Company Policies on scheduled flights and routes to ensure safety of flight.
Conduct business in a professional manner and demeanor at all times.
Operate Company aircraft adhering to established Qualification Standards and all Flight Manual operating procedures and policies.
Communicate with all required agencies and personnel while adhering to Company Communication Practices.
Must have knowledge commensurate with holder of airline transport pilot certificate and have knowledge of all aspects of applicable FARs and AIM.
Job-Specific Experience, Education & Skills

Required

Minimum of 1,500 hours of total documented flight time.
Minimum of 1,000 hours of fixed wing turbine time (airplane and powered lift combined).
A current First Class FAA medical certificate.
FAA Commercial Pilot Certificate with Instrument - Airplane.
All aeronautical experience requirements for an ATP, Airplane category rating, as set forth in 14 CFR §61.159.
Current ATP written exam.
High school diploma or equivalent.
Must possess a valid Driver’s License.
Must possess and/or obtain a current passport with unlimited access in and out of the United States. Employees with non-U.S. passports also will need any appropriate travel documentation.
Excellent judgment, leadership skills, demonstrated command ability and maturity.
Professional demeanor and appearance.
Must be comfortable with a domicile in Seattle, WA; Los Angeles, CA; Anchorage, AK; Portland, OR; or San Francisco, CA.
Minimum 23 years of age.
Must be authorized to work in the U.S.
Ability to communicate in English.
Preferred

An FAA Airline Transport Pilot (ATP) certificate.
500 hours of multi-engine airplane time.
Minimum of 50 hours of flight time within the last 12 months.
Four-year degree from an accredited university.
Airport SIDA Badge Requirements

Important update for non-crew employees working at an airport or maintenance hangar: Employees will be required to obtain a SIDA badge provided by the airport authority and maintain good standing in order to keep their SIDA badge. Review the SIDA Badge Requirements document for a comprehensive overview.

Job-Specific Leadership Expectations

Embody our values to own safety, do the right thing, be kind-hearted, deliver performance, and be remarkable.

Total Rewards

Alaska Airlines and Horizon Air pay and benefits can vary by company, location, number of regularly scheduled hours worked, length of employment, and employment status.

This role pays per collective bargaining agreement.
Medical, dental and vision benefits
401k program
Monthly incentive pay plan
Annual incentive pay plan
Generous paid time off
Travel privileges on Alaska Airlines & Horizon Air
Apply by 7:00 PM Pacific Time on 6/30/2023

FLSA Status Non-Exempt

Regular/Temporary Regular

Requisition ID 2022-9264